docs: improve streetlights tutorial (#801)
asyncapi/website: pages/docs/tutorials/streetlights.md

---
title: Streetlights
description: In this tutorial, you'll get started with code samples from an IoT real-world use case. Let's pretend you have a company called Smarty Lighting that engineers smart-city lighting systems.
---

# Introduction

> In this tutorial, you get started with actual code and a sample real-world use case. Let's pretend you have a company called Smarty Lighting and you install smart-city streetlight lighting systems.

Reviewer: Hey @starlightknown! ⭐  So for a tutorial **introduction**, you want to describe:
- what the user will build (list technologies and end goal)
- overview of main steps to build it
- what the user will learn 

Let's go ahead and give this section another go 😃

Author: done

> # Streetlights System Description

Reviewer: Since the "Streetlights System Description" section is not part of the tutorial outline templates we discussed, remember that this is going to actually get repurposed under the **Introduction** section. 😄   Let me know if that doesn't make sense @starlightknown ❤️

Author: yep I added it in introduction and removed this section heading

The Smartylighting Streetlights API allows you to manage city lights remotely.
You want to build a system that can turn streetlights on and off based on their environmental conditions: 

- You're going to implement an event-driven architecture, with a Message Broker in its "center".
- Streetlights will publish information about their environmental lighting to the broker.
- Your application will connect to the broker and receive a stream of events from all the streetlights that are reporting their conditions.
- Based off the events, your application can make a decision regarding turning the streetlight off.
- Your application is not aware of how many streetlights are publishing events - it just connects to the broker and receives all events

# Installation Guide

You'll use Node.js to code the APIs and [Mosquitto](https://mosquitto.org/) as the message broker. The selected technology is irrelevant here, since everything explained in this tutorial is applicable to any other programming language and message brokers.

Before you proceed to the next stage, you'll need to download a few things:

1. Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) (v15 or newer).

> 2. Download [Mosquitto](https://mosquitto.org/download/) (based on your Operating System)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Download [Mosquitto](https://mosquitto.org/download/) based on your Operating System.

```

> 3. Install Git based on your Operating System (OS):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Install Git based on your Operating System:

```
I'm thinking it looks odd to have that there by itself when we don't mention OS again...

<CodeBlock language="bash">
{`cd output && ls`}
</CodeBlock>

# Running your code

### 1. Install dependencies of newly generated application:
<CodeBlock language="bash">
{`npm install`}
</CodeBlock>

### 2. Start the application:
<CodeBlock language="bash">
{`npm start`}
</CodeBlock>

### 3. In another terminal start MQTT broker:
<CodeBlock language="bash">
{`docker run -it -p 1883:1883 eclipse-mosquitto:1.5`}
</CodeBlock>

### 4. In another terminal install the MQTT.js library:
<CodeBlock language="bash">
{`npm install mqtt -g`}
</CodeBlock>

### 5. Send a correct message to your application:
<CodeBlock language="bash">
{`mqtt pub -t 'light/measured' -h 'test.mosquitto.org' -m '{"id": 1, "lumens": 3, "sentAt": "2017-06-07T12:34:32.000Z"}'`}
</CodeBlock>

### 6. Send an incorrect message to your application:
<CodeBlock language="bash">
{`mqtt pub -t 'light/measured' -h 'test.mosquitto.org' -m '{"id": 1, "lumens": "3", "sentAt": "2017-06-07T12:34:32.000Z"}'`}
</CodeBlock>

### 7. Go back to the previous terminal and check if your application logged the streetlight condition you just sent, with errors related to the invalid message.

> # Summary

Reviewer: Hey @starlightknown! 😸 So remember that for the **Summary** section in our tutorials, we are writing:
- a summary of what the user just built and what technologies were used (again)
- an explanation of what the user learned to do 

A big part of improving this tutorial means both re-writing and adding new content ❤️ based on our new IA goals.

Author: made changes

> ---

Reviewer: @starlightknown Draft 2 is looking even better! This is good stuff and I just need to examine it more closely so I can give you detailed feedback. (mostly should be styling guide items that shouldn't be a big deal to change)

I look forward to checking this out, thank you for keeping at it! ⭐  I will tag you again in this PR when I have finished reviewing this latest draft.

👉🏽👉🏽 **P.S. Remember that in each `GSoD` PR, we should be adding all 6 other TW interns alongside your GSoD mentors**. Go ahead and add your other 5 teammates to this PR so they can review it too. 😃

Reviewer: Would like to recommend you subscribe to the **FREE** plan of **Grammarly**: https://www.grammarly.com/plans

You need to run all your TW drafts through a program like this to catch your first round of grammatical errors, typos, etc. 😄 I promise this will make your life easier! 

<img width="400" alt="Grammarly plans" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/19964402/173464230-90c8fd51-b363-47d5-bb4c-610304aadc01.png">

Author: > @starlightknown Draft 2 is looking even better! This is good stuff and I just need to examine it more closely so I can give you detailed feedback. (mostly should be styling guide items that shouldn't be a big deal to change)
> 
> I look forward to checking this out, thank you for keeping at it! star I will tag you again in this PR when I have finished reviewing this latest draft.
> 
> 👉🏽👉🏽 **P.S. Remember that in each `GSoD` PR, we should be adding all 6 other TW interns alongside your GSoD mentors**. Go ahead and add your other 5 teammates to this PR so they can review it too. smiley

I mentioned them in this issue, I was not sure about how to add them as reviewers here

Reviewer: @starlightknown ah, so you are saying that it doesn't show you permission to add reviewers, right? Does this gear option to add people not show for you? (if so, thank you for letting me know!)

<img width="300" alt="Screen Shot 2022-06-13 at 7 51 39 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/19964402/173483349-70273e9c-8d78-468b-bef1-51910bfde003.png">

Author: yeah, that does not show for us

title: Streetlights

> description: In this tutorial, you'll get started with code samples from an IoT real-world use case. Let's pretend you have a company called Smarty Lighting that engineers smart-city lighting systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: In this tutorial, you'll start with IoT code samples and pretend you have a company called Smarty Lighting that engineers smart-city lighting systems.

```

---

# Introduction

> In this tutorial, you get started with actual code and a sample real-world use case. Let's pretend you have a company called Smarty Lighting and you install smart-city streetlight lighting systems. This is a use case of Internet of things (IoT).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you get started with actual code for a sample real-world use case. Let's pretend you have a company called Smarty Lighting and you install smart-city streetlight lighting systems. This is a use case of the Internet of things (IoT).

```

> In this tutorial, you get started with actual code and a sample real-world use case. Let's pretend you have a company called Smarty Lighting and you install smart-city streetlight lighting systems. This is a use case of Internet of things (IoT).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you get started with actual code and a sample real-world use case. Let's pretend you have a company called Smarty Lighting, and you install smart-city streetlight lighting systems. This smart lighting system is a use case of the Internet of things (IoT).

```

> We are going to use Node.js and Mosquitto as the message broker to build a Smartylighting Streetlights API which allows you to manage city lights remotely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You're going to use Node.js and Mosquitto as the message broker to build a Smartylighting Streetlights API, that allows you to manage city lights remotely.

```

Something about these first docs is that they lack style guide consistency in a few items. In this case, I want you to notice that this tutorial is not consistent with the use of `we` and `you`. There are 17 places where `you` was used, as opposed to 7 times that `we` was used.

For our docs, I want us to stick to using `you` when addressing our readers with info/instructions on how to accomplish their goals. 

👉🏽 Let's go ahead and edit all mentions of `we` and replace them for `you`.

You want to build a system that can turn streetlights on and off based on their environmental conditions: 

> - You're going to implement an event-driven architecture (EDA), with a Message Broker in its "center".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You will implement an event-driven architecture (EDA) with a Message Broker in its "center."

```

- Streetlights will publish information about their environmental lighting to the broker.

> - Your application will connect to the broker and receive a stream of events from all the streetlights that are reporting their conditions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Your application will connect to the broker and receive a stream of events from all the streetlights reporting their conditions.

```

> - Based off the events, your application can make a decision regarding turning the streetlight off.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Your application decides based on events when to turn the streetlight off.

```

> - Your application is not aware of how many streetlights are publishing events - it just connects to the broker and receives all events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Your application is not aware of how many streetlights are publishing events - it just connects to the broker and receives all events.

```

> You will learn about event-driven architecture, message broker,pub/sub architecture, create an AsyncAPI file to describe your API and generate code from it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will learn about event-driven architecture, message brokers, pub/sub architecture, and creating an AsyncAPI file to describe your API and generate code from it.

```

# Background Context

Event-driven architecture (EDA) is a design pattern built around the production, detection, and reaction to events that take place in time.

> [Message brokers](https://deploy-preview-601--asyncapi-website.netlify.app/docs/tutorials/getting-started/event-driven-architectures#message-broker) enable asynchronous communications between services so that the sending service need not wait for the receiving service’s reply.This allows interdependent services to “talk” with one another directly, even if they were written in different languages or implemented on different platforms. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Message brokers](https://deploy-preview-601--asyncapi-website.netlify.app/docs/tutorials/getting-started/event-driven-architectures#message-broker) enable asynchronous communications between services so that the sending service need not wait for the receiving service’s reply. This allows interdependent services to “talk” with one another directly, even if they were written in different languages or implemented on different platforms. 

```

> Event-driven architecture (EDA) is a design pattern built around the production, detection, and reaction to events that take place in time.
> [Message brokers](https://deploy-preview-601--asyncapi-website.netlify.app/docs/tutorials/getting-started/event-driven-architectures#message-broker) enable asynchronous communications between services so that the sending service need not wait for the receiving service’s reply.This allows interdependent services to “talk” with one another directly, even if they were written in different languages or implemented on different platforms. 
> 
> In this tutorial, we are taking a use case of IoT which is Smart-City street lighting system. Two main features of [pub/sub](https://deploy-preview-601--asyncapi-website.netlify.app/docs/tutorials/getting-started/event-driven-architectures#publishersubscriber) that make it appealing for IoT use cases include support for flexible coupling between publishers and subscribers, as well as intrinsic support for point-to-multipoint transmission. [MQTT](https://mqtt.org/) and DDS are two well-known protocols that are widely utilized in IoT applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Event-driven architecture (EDA) is a design pattern built around the production, detection, and reaction to events that take place in time.
[Message brokers](https://deploy-preview-601--asyncapi-website.netlify.app/docs/tutorials/getting-started/event-driven-architectures#message-broker) enable asynchronous communications between services so that the sending service need not wait for the receiving service’s reply. This allows interdependent services to “talk” with one another directly, even if they were written in different languages or implemented on different platforms. 

In this tutorial, we are taking a use case of IoT which is a Smart-City street lighting system. Two main features of [pub/sub](https://deploy-preview-601--asyncapi-website.netlify.app/docs/tutorials/getting-started/event-driven-architectures#publishersubscriber) make it appealing for IoT use cases include support for flexible coupling between publishers and subscribers, as well as intrinsic support for point-to-multipoint transmission. [MQTT](https://mqtt.org/) and DDS are two well-known protocols that are widely utilized in IoT applications.

```

> In this tutorial, we are taking a use case of IoT which is Smart-City street lighting system. Two main features of [pub/sub](https://deploy-preview-601--asyncapi-website.netlify.app/docs/tutorials/getting-started/event-driven-architectures#publishersubscriber) that make it appealing for IoT use cases include support for flexible coupling between publishers and subscribers, as well as intrinsic support for point-to-multipoint transmission. [MQTT](https://mqtt.org/) and DDS are two well-known protocols that are widely utilized in IoT applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we are taking a use case of IoT, a Smart-City street lighting system. Two main features of [pub/sub](https://deploy-preview-601--asyncapi-website.netlify.app/docs/tutorials/getting-started/event-driven-architectures#publishersubscriber) make it appealing for IoT use cases; including support for flexible coupling between publishers/subscribers and intrinsic support for point-to-multipoint transmission. [MQTT](https://mqtt.org/) and DDS are two well-known protocols that IoT applications widely utilize.

```

<CodeBlock language="bash">
{`cd output && ls`}
</CodeBlock>

# Running your code

### 1. Install dependencies of newly generated application:
<CodeBlock language="bash">
{`npm install`}
</CodeBlock>

### 2. Start the application:
<CodeBlock language="bash">
{`npm start`}
</CodeBlock>

### 3. In another terminal start MQTT broker:
<CodeBlock language="bash">
{`docker run -it -p 1883:1883 eclipse-mosquitto:1.5`}
</CodeBlock>

### 4. In another terminal install the MQTT.js library:
<CodeBlock language="bash">
{`npm install mqtt -g`}
</CodeBlock>

### 5. Send a correct message to your application:
<CodeBlock language="bash">
{`mqtt pub -t 'light/measured' -h 'test.mosquitto.org' -m '{"id": 1, "lumens": 3, "sentAt": "2017-06-07T12:34:32.000Z"}'`}
</CodeBlock>

### 6. Send an incorrect message to your application:
<CodeBlock language="bash">
{`mqtt pub -t 'light/measured' -h 'test.mosquitto.org' -m '{"id": 1, "lumens": "3", "sentAt": "2017-06-07T12:34:32.000Z"}'`}
</CodeBlock>

### 7. Go back to the previous terminal and check if your application logged the streetlight condition you just sent, with errors related to the invalid message.

# Summary

> In this tutorial, we learned how to create an AsyncAPI description file and how to generate our API code from [AsyncAPI Generator](https://github.com/asyncapi/generator) using Node.js and Mosquitto as the message broker. We learned how to implement event driven architecture in a real life example, pub/sub architecture to send a message to our application using MQTT and Mosquitto message broker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we learned how to create an AsyncAPI description file and how to generate our API code from the [AsyncAPI Generator](https://github.com/asyncapi/generator), by using Node.js and Mosquitto as the message broker. We also learned how to implement the event-driven architecture in a real-life example, using pub/sub architecture to send a message to our application with an MQTT and Mosquitto message broker.

```

In this tutorial, we'll look at an IoT use case: a Smart-City street lighting system. [Pub/sub](https://deploy-preview-601--asyncapi-website.netlify.app/docs/tutorials/getting-started/event-driven-architectures#publishersubscriber) is appealing for IoT use cases due to two key features: support for flexible coupling between publishers/subscribers and inherent support for point-to-multipoint transmission.  [MQTT](https://mqtt.org/) and DDS are two well-known protocols that are widely used in IoT applications.

# Installation Guide

You'll use Node.js to code the APIs and [Mosquitto](https://mosquitto.org/) as the message broker. The selected technology is irrelevant here, since everything explained in this tutorial is applicable to any other programming language and message brokers.

Before you proceed to the next stage, you'll need to download a few things:

1. Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) (v15 or newer).

2. Download [Mosquitto](https://mosquitto.org/download/) based on your Operating System.

3. Install Git based on your Operating System:
- [Install Git on MacOs](https://git-scm.com/download/mac)
- [Install Git on Windows](https://git-scm.com/download/win)

> - [Install Git on Linux](https://git-scm.com/download/linux)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Install Git based on your Operating System:
    - [Install Git on MacOs](https://git-scm.com/download/mac)
    - [Install Git on Windows](https://git-scm.com/download/win)
    - [Install Git on Linux](https://git-scm.com/download/linux)
```

with this change, it will look like 👇🏼 

<img width="462" alt="Screenshot 2022-06-23 at 14 49 36" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6995927/175302422-2ae8838d-4e00-4ed3-820b-6fa216d4ba7e.png">

because it is not aligned properly now

<img width="619" alt="Screenshot 2022-06-23 at 14 41 17" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6995927/175302609-ee90478a-0697-4285-944e-d46e8e3738f5.png">
